[24500] Documentation reformat (#304)
eProsima/Fast-DDS-monitor: docs/rst/getting_started/tutorial.rst

example.
The main scenario in this tutorial uses the *eProsima Shapes Demo*, a graphical application that
publishes and subscribes to colored geometric shapes on named DDS topics (``Square``, ``Circle``,
``Triangle``).
Each shape sample carries four fields: ``color`` (a string), ``x``, ``y``, and ``shapesize``
(integers), which are ideal for live charts, spy views, and scatter plots.
A separate scenario at the end of this section demonstrates the :ref:`image_pane`.

.. _shapes_demo_scenario:

Shapes Demo Scenario
====================

*eProsima Shapes Demo* is available at `https://github.com/eProsima/ShapesDemo
<https://github.com/eProsima/ShapesDemo>`_.
Follow the build and installation instructions in that repository before continuing.
Once installed, two instances are needed to create the network used in this tutorial.

#. Open a terminal, source the *eProsima Shapes Demo* installation, and launch the first
   instance:

   .. code-block:: bash

       source ~/shapes_demo_ws/install/setup.bash
       ShapesDemo

   In the Shapes Demo GUI, go to **Options → Participant Configuration** and enable the

>    **Active statistics** toggle so the participant reports statistical data to the monitor.

Reviewer: It is okay that you mention it, but given they are active by default you could also mention that. So that instead of "enable the statistics" you can say something like, "make sure the statistics are enabled". Also for the second instance underneath.

#. Open a second terminal and launch a second instance:

   .. code-block:: bash

       source ~/shapes_demo_ws/install/setup.bash
       ShapesDemo

   In this second GUI, enable **Active statistics** the same way under
   **Options → Participant Configuration**.
   Then click **Subscribe** and create a **Square** subscriber.

The DDS network now has three active endpoints on domain :code:`0`: a Square publisher and a
Circle publisher in the first instance, and a Square subscriber in the second.
Keep both Shapes Demo windows open throughout the tutorial.

.. thumbnail:: /rst/figures/screenshots/shapes_demo_pro.png
    :align: center

.. _pro_monitor_launch:

Fast DDS Monitor Pro Execution
================================

Start *Fast DDS Monitor Pro*.
The start screen appears; press **Start monitoring!** to enter the main interface.

.. figure:: /rst/figures/screenshots/main_pro.png
    :align: center

Initiate Monitoring
===================

Once in the application, the initialization dialog asks you to select a monitoring mode.
The Shapes Demo processes are running on domain :code:`0`.
Select **DDS Domain**, enter :code:`0`, and click **OK**.

> .. figure:: /rst/figures/screenshots/usage_example/Init_domain.png

Reviewer: Use an image of the monitor pro

    :align: center

The monitor starts discovering entities.
After a few seconds the **Explorer Panel** on the left shows the participants, writers, and reader
created by the two Shapes Demo instances.
Open all sub-panels by clicking the :code:`···` button in the top-right corner of the Explorer
Panel.
The topics ``Square`` and ``Circle`` appear in the Logical panel under domain :code:`0`, and the
host, users, and two processes appear in the Physical panel.

.. figure:: /rst/figures/screenshots/explorer_pro.png
    :align: center

Explore the Domain View
=======================

Click **Domain View** in the main panel selector, or go to **Add → Add Domain View**, to see
the DDS network as an interactive graph.

The graph shows both Shapes Demo processes as boxes inside the host.

> Each process contains its participant.

Reviewer: Missing image of a domain view

statistics metatraffic topics produced by the *Fast DDS* statistics module.

Click the small arrow next to ``Square`` to expand it.
The fields of ``ShapeType`` are listed: ``color``, ``x``, ``y``, and ``shapesize``.
The numeric fields ``x``, ``y``, and ``shapesize`` are interactive leaf nodes - they can be dragged
onto an open chart to add a new series, or right-clicked to plot immediately.

.. figure:: /rst/figures/screenshots/topics_square_pro.png
    :align: center
    :width: 400px

Spy a Topic
===========

Right-click ``Square`` in the **Topics Panel** and select **Spy topic data**.
A Spy Topic View pane opens and immediately starts receiving live samples from the Square
publisher.

.. figure:: /rst/figures/screenshots/spy_square_pro.png
    :align: center
    :width: 400px

Use the |play| / |pause| button in the pane header to pause or resume the live feed without
closing the pane.
While paused, the last received sample stays visible for inspection.

Split Panes
===========

*Fast DDS Monitor Pro* can hold several views side by side within the same monitor tab.
With the Spy pane already open, let's split it to place a chart alongside it.

> Click the **...** (three-dots) button in the Spy pane header and select **Split right**.

Reviewer: When hovering over split right the options appear and you need to click on topic chart

A new empty pane appears to the right of the Spy pane.

.. figure:: /rst/figures/screenshots/resize_pro.png
    :align: center
    :width: 500px

Drag the vertical divider between the panes to resize them as needed.
The Spy pane stays on the left while the new empty pane on the right shows a set of view type
buttons - click **Topic Charts View** to open a Time Series Topic Chart there.

> The configuration panel slides in from the right.

Reviewer: It is not necessary to click topic charts view since you would have already pressed it before. Or maybe you are referring to the "Create Topic Chart", but to do so the right config panel would need to be shown already. Also the configuration panel I wouldnt say it slides in, to me it kinda pops up.

* **From the Spy pane** - right-click the ``x`` field in the Spy pane and select **Plot field**
  to open a new chart for that field, or drag any numeric leaf from the sample tree onto an
  already-open chart to add it as a new series.

Click |resize| **Reset View** in the chart header at any time to return both axes to their
default range after zooming or panning.

Plot an XY Chart
================

A Time Series chart shows each value changing over time.
To see the shape's trajectory - plotting ``x`` against ``y`` - switch to XY Chart mode.

Click |gear| in the ``Square Position`` chart header to open the configuration panel.
Click the **XY Chart** button in the **PLOT MODE** row.
The chart clears and the settings update for XY mode.

Under **PANE SETTINGS**:

* **Domain** -- :code:`Domain 0`.
* **Max points** -- :code:`200` to keep the scatter plot readable.
* Click **Apply & Reset Chart**.

Click **Add XY Series** in the **SERIES** section:

* **X Axis Topic** -- select ``Square``; **X Field** -- select ``x``.
* **Y Axis Topic** -- select ``Square``; **Y Field** -- select ``y``.
* Click **Add XY Series**.

.. figure:: /rst/figures/screenshots/xy_pro.png
    :align: center

> The scatter plot shows every position where the shape has been during the last :code:`500` samples.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The scatter plot shows every position where the shape has been during the last :code:`200` samples.
```

Click **Apply & Restart** to attach the publisher to the ``Square`` topic.
The pane body fills with an auto-generated form with one row per field in ``ShapeType``.
Click **Randomize** in the **ACTIONS** section of the configuration panel to fill all fields
with random valid values automatically.

.. figure:: /rst/figures/screenshots/publish_pro.png
    :align: center

Click **Publish once** (the blue button at the bottom of the pane body, or **Publish once** in
the **ACTIONS** section of the configuration panel) to send a single sample.
The samples-sent counter in **CURRENT TOPIC** increments to :code:`1`.
A shape with the randomized color, size, and position appears in the Shapes Demo instance that
has the Square subscriber for the duration of one message lifetime.

To publish a continuous stream, enable **Publish continuously** in the **CONTINUOUS** section of
the configuration panel and set **Interval** to :code:`100` milliseconds.
The shape stays refreshed at the same position for as long as continuous mode is active.
Click the toggle again to stop publishing.

Add a Second Monitor
====================

> One of the most useful capabilities of *Fast DDS Monitor Pro* is the ability to run several

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A notable feature of *Fast DDS Monitor Pro* is the ability to run several
```

A new Image Pane opens and the configuration panel shows **IMAGE VIEW** at the top.

Under **CHANGE TOPIC**, select **Domain 1** and pick your image topic from the list (the list shows only the image topics).
Click **Apply & Reload**.

.. figure:: /rst/figures/screenshots/image_pro.png
    :align: center

The pane starts displaying frames as soon as the first one arrives.
A metadata strip at the bottom of the pane shows the frame resolution, encoding, and a running
total frame count.

Use the |play| / |pause| button in the pane header to pause the stream.
When paused, the last received frame stays visible so you can inspect it.

Under **ACTIONS** in the configuration panel, click **Save Screenshot** to save the current frame
as a PNG file, or **Copy Screenshot** to copy it to the clipboard.

Save and Restore a Workspace
==============================

After spending time setting up monitors, pane layouts, charts, and alert rules, it would be a
waste to lose all that configuration when the application is closed.
*Fast DDS Monitor Pro* saves the complete session state to a workspace file and restores it
exactly on the next launch.

> Click the |save| button in the shortcuts toolbar at the top right of the window, or go to

Reviewer: It is not on the shortcuts toolbar

**File → Save Workspace**.
A file dialog opens.
Navigate to a suitable folder, type a name such as ``shapes_tutorial``, and click **Save**.
The file is written with the ``.fdmw`` extension.

To verify that the restore works, go to **File → Load Workspace** and select the
``shapes_tutorial.fdmw`` file.
All monitor tabs, pane layouts, chart series, chart settings, alert rules, sidebar state, theme,
and toolbar visibility are restored exactly as they were.
Each monitor reopens in a waiting state and populates as the Shapes Demo processes are rediscovered.

.. note::

    The statistics database is not stored in the workspace file.
    Entity discovery and data collection restart fresh on load; panes populate as DDS traffic is
    received after the workspace is applied.

Switch Theme
============

*Fast DDS Monitor Pro* ships with **Light** and **Dark** themes.

> Every part of the interface - panels, charts, icons, dialogs, the title bar, and the menu bar -

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Every part of the interface (panels, charts, icons, dialogs, the title bar, and the menu bar)
```
